---
title: Physics-Based Simulation and Control Framework 
tags: paper
image: static/content/pbs/topFig_rev.png
shortdesc: (2022) for Steering a Magnetically-Actuated Guidewire
---

<div class="justify-text">

## Description

Once I got curious about guiding a small wire (a guidewire) through the complex pathways of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The idea was to use magnets to steer this guidewire. It sounded promising and a bit adventurous.

In this work, I explored how to guide a small wire, called a guidewire, through tight spaces like our gastrointestinal (GI) tract using magnetism. This could be helpful for making some medical procedures easier and less invasive.

I started by creating a simulation, a kind of virtual playground, to understand and control how the guidewire moves. I broke down the complex behavior of the guidewire into simpler parts using ideas from physics, especially focusing on how objects like springs stretch and bend, and how magnets attract or repel each other.

I imagined the guidewire as a series of small springs connected together, which could bend and stretch as they move through space. This model helped me understand how the guidewire would behave as it navigates through tight and winding paths.

The challenge was to control the guidewire's movement using magnetic forces. I used an external magnet to create a magnetic field, which would guide the guidewire on its path. By changing the position and orientation of this external magnet, I could steer the guidewire through different paths.

The simulations showed that with just a single external magnet, I could guide the guidewire in any direction within a 3D space, as long as it stays close to the path it's supposed to follow, like the GI tract. This was a simple but powerful idea: with just one magnet, we could navigate the guidewire through complex spaces.

But, there were some hurdles. The magnetic forces needed to be just right: strong enough to move the guidewire, but gentle enough to ensure smooth movement. Also, the interaction between the guidewire and its surroundings was something I had to consider to make the movement smooth and precise.

As I dug deeper, I realized that the model could be improved by considering more complex setups, like using more magnets or adjusting their positions. These changes could help make the control of the guidewire even better, making it a useful tool for medical procedures.

In conclusion, this study showed the potential of using magnetism to guide a guidewire through complex spaces like the GI tract. The findings open up new possibilities for designing better tools for medical procedures, making them less invasive and more precise. The next step would be to test these ideas in real-world settings, to see how well the simulation predictions match with actual results, and to explore more ways to improve the control and navigation of the guidewire using magnetic forces.
<div>


## <span id="Resources">Resources</span>

<a class="ieee-logo" href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9803963">Link to</a>

[Download the Paper]({{ site.url }}/static/content/pbs/CODiT22_0197_FI.pdf)


